README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 💌 ** KooL's Opensuse Tumbleweed - Hyprland Install Script ** 💌

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="400" />
</p>

![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=cba6f7) ![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=b4befe) ![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=cba6f7) <a href="https://discord.gg/kool-tech-world"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1151869464405606400?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&color=cba6f7&link=https%3A%2F%2Fdiscord.gg%kool-tech-world"> </a>

<br/>
</div>

<div align="center">
<br>
  <a href="#-announcement-"><kbd> <br> Read this First <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="#-to-use-this-script"><kbd> <br> How to use this script <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="#gallery-and-videos"><kbd> <br> Gallery <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
 </div><br>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="200" />
</p>

<div align="center">
👇 KOOL's Hyprland-Dots related Links 👇
<br/>
</div>
<div align="center">
<br>
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots"><kbd> <br> Hyprland-Dots repo <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx"><kbd> <br> Youtube <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki"><kbd> <br> Wiki <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds"><kbd> <br> Keybinds <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/FAQ"><kbd> <br> FAQ <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://discord.gg/kool-tech-world"><kbd> <br> Discord <br> </kbd></a>
</div><br>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="200" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Telegram-Animated-Emojis/blob/main/Activity/Sparkles.webp" alt="Sparkles" width="38" height="38" />
	KooL Hyprland-Dotfiles Showcase 
	<img src="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Telegram-Animated-Emojis/blob/main/Activity/Sparkles.webp" alt="Sparkles" width="38" height="38" />
</h3>

<div align="center">

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49bc12b2-abaf-45de-a21c-67aacd9bb872

</div>

### Gallery and Videos
#### 🎥 Feb 2025 Video explanation of installation with preset
- [YOUTUBE-LINK](https://youtu.be/wQ70lo7P6vA?si=_QcbrNKh_Bg0L3wC)
- [YOUTUBE-Hyprland-Playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx&si=iaNjLulFdsZ6AV-t)

### 🪧🪧🪧 ANNOUNCEMENT 🪧🪧🪧
- This Repo does not contain Hyprland Dots or configs! Dotfiles can be checked here [`Hyprland-Dots`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots) . During installation, if you opt to copy pre-configured dots, it will be downloaded from that centralized repo.
- Hyprland-Dots use are constantly evolving / improving. you can check CHANGELOGS here [`Hyprland-Dots-Changelogs`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Changelogs)
- Since the Hyprland-Dots are evolving, some of the screenshots maybe old
- the wallpaper offered to be downloaded towards the end is from this [`REPO`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Wallpaper-Bank)

### ♨️ Activating Packman Repo
- by default, the packman mirror chosen is "https://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/packman/suse/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/"
- if you require to change the mirror, edit install-scripts/00-packman.sh and add mirrors of your choice. you can find mirrors [HERE](http://packman.links2linux.org/mirrors)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> install a backup tool like `snapper` or `timeshift`. and Backup your system before installing hyprland using this script (HIGHLY RECOMMENDED).

> [!CAUTION]
> Download this script on a directory where you have write permissions. ie. HOME. Or any directory within your home directory. Else script will fail

#### 🆕  Prerequisites
- This install script is intended for atleast Server type installed.
- In theory, This should work on a any Tumbleweed with DE (Plasma, Gnome, XFCE). Although I am not sure about xfce default login manager if able to detect Hyprland.
- If you have nvidia, and wanted to use proprietary drivers, uninstall nouveau first (if installed). This script will be installing proprietary nvidia drivers and will not deal with removal of nouveau.

#### ✨  Some notes on installation
- Some apps are being installed using OPI. These packages are wlogout, swaylock-effects and nwg-look
- for SDDM, by script sddm-qt6 will be installed. If you have already sddm, I HIGHLY SUGGEST NOT to install sddm through this script since I dont know the impact to your current sddm. Opensuse ship 2 version, sddm and sddm-qt6. The latter is more up to date... (I think)
- Another for SDDM, if you are installing from a server type of opensuse install, I highly suggest to install the sddm theme since you'll get a vanilla look sddm theme. 

#### ✨ Costumize the packages
- inside the install-scripts directory, you can edit 02-hypr-pkgs.sh, etc. Care though as the Hyprland Dots might not work properly

#### 🚩 Switching to SDDM assuming you have GDM installed and running
- if you really want switch to SDDM from GDM, you need to disable the gdm first.
- `sudo systemctl disable gdm.service` then reboot
- after reboot, need to ran the install script via tty. So suggest download the install script first. Then disable gdm. reboot and once logged in, cd into Distro-Hyprland then `./install.sh` and then choose SDDM and SDDM theme in the options. 
- NOTE: Distro-Hyprland is OpenSuse-Hyprland, or Fedora-Hyprland .. depends on which install scripts you downloaded.

#### 💫 SDDM and GTK Themes offered
- If you opted to install SDDM theme, here's the [`LINK`](https://codeberg.org/minMelody/sddm-sequoia) which is a fork of [`LINK`](https://codeberg.org/minMelody/sddm-sequoia)
- If you opted to install GTK Themes, Icons,  here's the [`LINK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/GTK-themes-icons). This also includes Bibata Modern Ice cursor.

#### 🔔 NOTICE TO NVIDIA OWNERS ### 
- Please take note that the nvidia driver will be install is G06 driver, which is for GeForce 700 series (Maxwell, Pascal...) and up see here [`NVIDIA-Opensuse-Link`](https://en.opensuse.org/SDB:NVIDIA_drivers)
- You can edit the install-scripts/nvidia.sh if you require for older cards. However, do take note that it may not work as older nvidia drivers dont support wayland well.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to use nouveau driver, dont choose nvidia in the option. This is because the nvidia installer part, it will blacklist nouveau. Hyprland will still be installed but it will skip blacklisting nouveau.
- NVIDIA users / owners, after installation, check [`THIS`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Notes_to_remember#--for-nvidia-gpu-users)

#### 🔔 NOTICE TO ASUS ROG Laptop owners ### 
- There is an guide by Asusctl dev [`Asusctl`](https://asus-linux.org/wiki/opensuse-guide/)
- However. during my test, the ROG gui is not behaving well, and I cant click any button. So The asusctl and supergfxctl that I have set here are build from source through their gitlab

## ✨ Auto clone and install
- you can use this command to automatically clone the installer and ran the script for you
- NOTE: `curl` package is required before running this command
```bash
sh <(curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland/main/auto-install.sh)
```
- if you are using say fish or a non-POSIX compliant
```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland/main/auto-install.sh | bash
```

## ✨ to use this script
> clone this repo (latest commit only) to reduce file size download by using git. Change directory, make executable and run the script
```bash
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland.git ~/OpenSuse-Hyprland
cd ~/OpenSuse-Hyprland
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### 💥 💥  UNINSTALL SCRIPT / Removal of Config Files
- 11 March 2025, due to popular request, created a guided `uninstall.sh` script. USE this with caution as it may render your system unstable.
- I will not be responsible if your system breaks
- The best still to revert to previous state of your system is via timeshift of snapper

#### ✨ for ZSH and OH-MY-ZSH installation
> installer should auto change your default shell to zsh. However, if it does not, do this
```bash
chsh -s $(which zsh)
zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```
- reboot or logout
- by default `agnosterzak` theme is installed. Which is from external oh-my-zsh theme. You can find more themes from this [`OH-MY-ZSH-THEMES`](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/wiki/Themes)
- to change the theme, `SUPER SHIFT O` , choose  desired theme, and close and open terminal. 
- or manually edit `~/.zshrc` . Look for ZSH_THEME="desired theme"

#### 🎞️ AGS Overview DEMO
- in case you wonder, here is a short demo of AGS overview [Youtube LINK](https://youtu.be/zY5SLNPBJTs)

#### ✨ TO DO once installation done and dotfiles copied
- SUPER H for HINT or click on the waybar HINT! Button 
- Head over to [KooL Hyprland WIKI](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki)

#### 🙋 Got a questions regarding the Hyprland Dots or configurations? 🙋
- Head over to wiki Link [`WIKI`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki)

#### ⌨ Keybinds
- Keybinds [`CLICK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds)

> [!TIP]
> KooL Hyprland has a searchable keybind function via rofi. (SUPER SHIFT K) or right click the `HINTS` waybar button

#### 🙋 👋 Having issues or questions? 
- for the install part, kindly open issue on this repo
- for the Pre-configured Hyprland dots / configuration, submit issue [`here`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/issues)

#### ❗ some known issues on this Installer
- some users reported that they have to install some packages. It is in the install-scripts/force-install.sh
- At this time the packages force to install are the following `playerctl`

#### ❗ some known issues for nvidia
- reports from members of my discord, states that some users of nvidia are getting stuck on sddm login. credit  to @Kenni Fix stated was 
```  
 while in sddm press ctrl+alt+F2 or F3
log into your account
`lspci -nn`, find the id of your nvidia card
`ls /dev/dri/by-path` find the matching id
`ls -l /dev/dri/by-path` to check where the symlink points to 
)
```
- add "env = WLR_DRM_DEVICES,/dev/dri/cardX" to the ENVvariables config `~/.config/hypr/UserConfigs/ENVariables.conf`  ; X being where the symlink of the gpu points to

- more info from the hyprland wiki [`Hyprland Wiki Link`](https://wiki.hyprland.org/FAQ/#my-external-monitor-is-blank--doesnt-render--receives-no-signal-laptop)


- reports from a member of discord for Nvidia for additional env's
- remove # from the following env's on 
```
env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm
env = WLR_RENDERER_ALLOW_SOFTWARE,1
```

#### ❗ other known issues
> [!NOTE]
> Auto start of Hyprland after login (no SDDM or GDM or any login managers)
- [ ] This was disabled a few days ago. (19 May 2024). This was because some users, after they used the Distro-Hyprland scripts with other DE (gnome-wayland or plasma-wayland), if they choose to login into gnome-wayland for example, Hyprland is starting. 
- [ ] to avoid this, I disabled it. You can re-enable again by editing `~/.zprofile` . Remove all the # on the first lines
- [ ] ROFI issues (scaling, unexplained scaling etc). This is most likely to experience if you are installing on a system where rofi is currently installed. To fix it uninstall rofi and install rofi-wayland . `sudo zypper rm rofi` . Install rofi-wayland with `sudo zypper in rofi-wayland`. Rofi-wayland is compatible with x11 so no need to worry.


#### 🔧 Proper way to re-installing a particular script from install-scripts directory
- CD into OpenSuse-Hyprland directory and then ran the below command. 
- i.e. `./install-scripts/gtk-themes.sh` - For reinstall GTK Themes or
- `./install-scripts/sddm.sh` - For reinstall sddm
> [!IMPORTANT]
> DO NOT cd into install-scripts directory as script will most likely to fail

#### 🛣️ TO DO:
- ~~[ ] Install zsh and oh-my-zsh without necessary steps above~~ DONE 
- ~~[ ] Make it fully functional (duh 🤣)~~ done
- ~~[ ] hyprland-nvidia - NOT SUPPORTED~~ NOW SUPPORTED 🥳
- ~~[ ] SDDM is not starting. However, if you opt to install zsh, I have already set for auto log-in to Hyprland so once you set up zsh like the instruction above. You just need to type username and password.~~ FIXED 🥳

#### 🫥 Improving performance for Older Nvidia Cards using driver 470
  - [`SEE HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/discussions/123#discussion-6035205)
  
#### ❗ some known issues on Hyprland-Dots
- See FAQ section of Hyprland-Dots [FAQ](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/FAQ)

#### ⌨ Keybinds
- Keybinds [`CLICK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds)
> [!TIP]
> KooL's Dots v2.3.7 has a searchable keybind function via rofi. (SUPER SHIFT K) or right click the `HINTS` waybar button

#### ✍️ Contributing
- As stated above, these script does not contain actual config files. These are only the installer of packages
- If you want to contribute and/or test the Hyprland-Dotfiles (development branch), [`Hyprland-Dots-Development`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/tree/development)
- Want to contribute on KooL-Hyprland-Dots Click [`HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for a guide how to contribute
- Want to contribute on This Installer? Click [`HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for a guide how to contribute


#### 📒 Final Notes
- join my discord channel [`Discord`](https://discord.com/invite/kool-tech-world)
- Feel free to copy, re-distribute, and use this script however you want. Would appreciate if you give me some loves by crediting my work :)

#### 👍👍👍 Thanks and Credits!
- [`Hyprland`](https://hyprland.org/) Of course to Hyprland and @vaxerski for this awesome Dynamic Tiling Manager.

### 💖 Support
- a Star on my Github repos would be nice 🌟

- Subscribe to my Youtube Channel [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@Ja.KooLit) 

- you can also give support through coffee's or btc 😊

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/jakoolit)

or

[!["Buy Me A Coffee"](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/JaKooLit)

Or you can donate cryto on my btc wallet :)  
> 1N3MeV2dsX6gQB42HXU6MF2hAix1mqjo8i

![Bitcoin](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ed32f8f-c499-46f0-a53c-3f6fbd343699)



#### 📹 Youtube videos (Click to view and watch the playlist) 📹
[![Youtube Playlist Thumbnail](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/screenshots/main/Youtube.png)](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx&si=iaNjLulFdsZ6AV-t)

## 🥰🥰 💖💖 👍👍👍
[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland.svg?variant=adaptive)](https://starchart.cc/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland)

Commit message:

install.sh updated to NOT exit if user choose N on the last part. Removed auto-clone instruction for Fish as it creates a big issue

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 💌 ** KooL's Opensuse Tumbleweed - Hyprland Install Script ** 💌

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="400" />
</p>

![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=cba6f7) ![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=b4befe) ![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland?style=for-the-badge&color=cba6f7) <a href="https://discord.gg/kool-tech-world"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1151869464405606400?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&color=cba6f7&link=https%3A%2F%2Fdiscord.gg%kool-tech-world"> </a>

<br/>
</div>

<div align="center">
<br>
  <a href="#-announcement-"><kbd> <br> Read this First <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="#-to-use-this-script"><kbd> <br> How to use this script <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="#gallery-and-videos"><kbd> <br> Gallery <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
 </div><br>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="200" />
</p>

<div align="center">
👇 KOOL's Hyprland-Dots related Links 👇
<br/>
</div>
<div align="center">
<br>
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots"><kbd> <br> Hyprland-Dots repo <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx"><kbd> <br> Youtube <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki"><kbd> <br> Wiki <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds"><kbd> <br> Keybinds <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/FAQ"><kbd> <br> FAQ <br> </kbd></a>&ensp;&ensp;
  <a href="https://discord.gg/kool-tech-world"><kbd> <br> Discord <br> </kbd></a>
</div><br>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/main/assets/latte.png" width="200" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
	<img src="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Telegram-Animated-Emojis/blob/main/Activity/Sparkles.webp" alt="Sparkles" width="38" height="38" />
	KooL Hyprland-Dotfiles Showcase 
	<img src="https://github.com/JaKooLit/Telegram-Animated-Emojis/blob/main/Activity/Sparkles.webp" alt="Sparkles" width="38" height="38" />
</h3>

<div align="center">

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/49bc12b2-abaf-45de-a21c-67aacd9bb872

</div>

### Gallery and Videos
#### 🎥 Feb 2025 Video explanation of installation with preset
- [YOUTUBE-LINK](https://youtu.be/wQ70lo7P6vA?si=_QcbrNKh_Bg0L3wC)
- [YOUTUBE-Hyprland-Playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx&si=iaNjLulFdsZ6AV-t)

### 🪧🪧🪧 ANNOUNCEMENT 🪧🪧🪧
- This Repo does not contain Hyprland Dots or configs! Dotfiles can be checked here [`Hyprland-Dots`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots) . During installation, if you opt to copy pre-configured dots, it will be downloaded from that centralized repo.
- Hyprland-Dots use are constantly evolving / improving. you can check CHANGELOGS here [`Hyprland-Dots-Changelogs`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Changelogs)
- Since the Hyprland-Dots are evolving, some of the screenshots maybe old
- the wallpaper offered to be downloaded towards the end is from this [`REPO`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Wallpaper-Bank)

### ♨️ Activating Packman Repo
- by default, the packman mirror chosen is "https://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/packman/suse/openSUSE_Tumbleweed/"
- if you require to change the mirror, edit install-scripts/00-packman.sh and add mirrors of your choice. you can find mirrors [HERE](http://packman.links2linux.org/mirrors)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> install a backup tool like `snapper` or `timeshift`. and Backup your system before installing hyprland using this script (HIGHLY RECOMMENDED).

> [!CAUTION]
> Download this script on a directory where you have write permissions. ie. HOME. Or any directory within your home directory. Else script will fail

#### 🆕  Prerequisites
- This install script is intended for atleast Server type installed.
- In theory, This should work on a any Tumbleweed with DE (Plasma, Gnome, XFCE). Although I am not sure about xfce default login manager if able to detect Hyprland.
- If you have nvidia, and wanted to use proprietary drivers, uninstall nouveau first (if installed). This script will be installing proprietary nvidia drivers and will not deal with removal of nouveau.

#### ✨  Some notes on installation
- Some apps are being installed using OPI. These packages are wlogout, swaylock-effects and nwg-look
- for SDDM, by script sddm-qt6 will be installed. If you have already sddm, I HIGHLY SUGGEST NOT to install sddm through this script since I dont know the impact to your current sddm. Opensuse ship 2 version, sddm and sddm-qt6. The latter is more up to date... (I think)
- Another for SDDM, if you are installing from a server type of opensuse install, I highly suggest to install the sddm theme since you'll get a vanilla look sddm theme. 

#### ✨ Costumize the packages
- inside the install-scripts directory, you can edit 02-hypr-pkgs.sh, etc. Care though as the Hyprland Dots might not work properly

#### 🚩 Switching to SDDM assuming you have GDM installed and running
- if you really want switch to SDDM from GDM, you need to disable the gdm first.
- `sudo systemctl disable gdm.service` then reboot
- after reboot, need to ran the install script via tty. So suggest download the install script first. Then disable gdm. reboot and once logged in, cd into Distro-Hyprland then `./install.sh` and then choose SDDM and SDDM theme in the options. 
- NOTE: Distro-Hyprland is OpenSuse-Hyprland, or Fedora-Hyprland .. depends on which install scripts you downloaded.

#### 💫 SDDM and GTK Themes offered
- If you opted to install SDDM theme, here's the [`LINK`](https://codeberg.org/minMelody/sddm-sequoia) which is a fork of [`LINK`](https://codeberg.org/minMelody/sddm-sequoia)
- If you opted to install GTK Themes, Icons,  here's the [`LINK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/GTK-themes-icons). This also includes Bibata Modern Ice cursor.

#### 🔔 NOTICE TO NVIDIA OWNERS ### 
- Please take note that the nvidia driver will be install is G06 driver, which is for GeForce 700 series (Maxwell, Pascal...) and up see here [`NVIDIA-Opensuse-Link`](https://en.opensuse.org/SDB:NVIDIA_drivers)
- You can edit the install-scripts/nvidia.sh if you require for older cards. However, do take note that it may not work as older nvidia drivers dont support wayland well.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to use nouveau driver, dont choose nvidia in the option. This is because the nvidia installer part, it will blacklist nouveau. Hyprland will still be installed but it will skip blacklisting nouveau.
- NVIDIA users / owners, after installation, check [`THIS`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Notes_to_remember#--for-nvidia-gpu-users)

#### 🔔 NOTICE TO ASUS ROG Laptop owners ### 
- There is an guide by Asusctl dev [`Asusctl`](https://asus-linux.org/wiki/opensuse-guide/)
- However. during my test, the ROG gui is not behaving well, and I cant click any button. So The asusctl and supergfxctl that I have set here are build from source through their gitlab

## ✨ Auto clone and install
> [!CAUTION] 
> If you are using FISH SHELL, DO NOT use this function. Clone and ran install.sh instead

- you can use this command to automatically clone the installer and ran the script for you
- NOTE: `curl` package is required before running this command
```bash
sh <(curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland/main/auto-install.sh)
```

## ✨ to use this script
> clone this repo (latest commit only) to reduce file size download by using git. Change directory, make executable and run the script
```bash
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland.git ~/OpenSuse-Hyprland
cd ~/OpenSuse-Hyprland
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

### 💥 💥  UNINSTALL SCRIPT / Removal of Config Files
- 11 March 2025, due to popular request, created a guided `uninstall.sh` script. USE this with caution as it may render your system unstable.
- I will not be responsible if your system breaks
- The best still to revert to previous state of your system is via timeshift of snapper

#### ✨ for ZSH and OH-MY-ZSH installation
> installer should auto change your default shell to zsh. However, if it does not, do this
```bash
chsh -s $(which zsh)
zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```
- reboot or logout
- by default `agnosterzak` theme is installed. Which is from external oh-my-zsh theme. You can find more themes from this [`OH-MY-ZSH-THEMES`](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/wiki/Themes)
- to change the theme, `SUPER SHIFT O` , choose  desired theme, and close and open terminal. 
- or manually edit `~/.zshrc` . Look for ZSH_THEME="desired theme"

#### 🎞️ AGS Overview DEMO
- in case you wonder, here is a short demo of AGS overview [Youtube LINK](https://youtu.be/zY5SLNPBJTs)

#### ✨ TO DO once installation done and dotfiles copied
- SUPER H for HINT or click on the waybar HINT! Button 
- Head over to [KooL Hyprland WIKI](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki)

#### 🙋 Got a questions regarding the Hyprland Dots or configurations? 🙋
- Head over to wiki Link [`WIKI`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki)

#### ⌨ Keybinds
- Keybinds [`CLICK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds)

> [!TIP]
> KooL Hyprland has a searchable keybind function via rofi. (SUPER SHIFT K) or right click the `HINTS` waybar button

#### 🙋 👋 Having issues or questions? 
- for the install part, kindly open issue on this repo
- for the Pre-configured Hyprland dots / configuration, submit issue [`here`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/issues)

#### ❗ some known issues on this Installer
- some users reported that they have to install some packages. It is in the install-scripts/force-install.sh
- At this time the packages force to install are the following `playerctl`

#### ❗ some known issues for nvidia
- reports from members of my discord, states that some users of nvidia are getting stuck on sddm login. credit  to @Kenni Fix stated was 
```  
 while in sddm press ctrl+alt+F2 or F3
log into your account
`lspci -nn`, find the id of your nvidia card
`ls /dev/dri/by-path` find the matching id
`ls -l /dev/dri/by-path` to check where the symlink points to 
)
```
- add "env = WLR_DRM_DEVICES,/dev/dri/cardX" to the ENVvariables config `~/.config/hypr/UserConfigs/ENVariables.conf`  ; X being where the symlink of the gpu points to

- more info from the hyprland wiki [`Hyprland Wiki Link`](https://wiki.hyprland.org/FAQ/#my-external-monitor-is-blank--doesnt-render--receives-no-signal-laptop)


- reports from a member of discord for Nvidia for additional env's
- remove # from the following env's on 
```
env = GBM_BACKEND,nvidia-drm
env = WLR_RENDERER_ALLOW_SOFTWARE,1
```

#### ❗ other known issues
> [!NOTE]
> Auto start of Hyprland after login (no SDDM or GDM or any login managers)
- [ ] This was disabled a few days ago. (19 May 2024). This was because some users, after they used the Distro-Hyprland scripts with other DE (gnome-wayland or plasma-wayland), if they choose to login into gnome-wayland for example, Hyprland is starting. 
- [ ] to avoid this, I disabled it. You can re-enable again by editing `~/.zprofile` . Remove all the # on the first lines
- [ ] ROFI issues (scaling, unexplained scaling etc). This is most likely to experience if you are installing on a system where rofi is currently installed. To fix it uninstall rofi and install rofi-wayland . `sudo zypper rm rofi` . Install rofi-wayland with `sudo zypper in rofi-wayland`. Rofi-wayland is compatible with x11 so no need to worry.


#### 🔧 Proper way to re-installing a particular script from install-scripts directory
- CD into OpenSuse-Hyprland directory and then ran the below command. 
- i.e. `./install-scripts/gtk-themes.sh` - For reinstall GTK Themes or
- `./install-scripts/sddm.sh` - For reinstall sddm
> [!IMPORTANT]
> DO NOT cd into install-scripts directory as script will most likely to fail

#### 🛣️ TO DO:
- ~~[ ] Install zsh and oh-my-zsh without necessary steps above~~ DONE 
- ~~[ ] Make it fully functional (duh 🤣)~~ done
- ~~[ ] hyprland-nvidia - NOT SUPPORTED~~ NOW SUPPORTED 🥳
- ~~[ ] SDDM is not starting. However, if you opt to install zsh, I have already set for auto log-in to Hyprland so once you set up zsh like the instruction above. You just need to type username and password.~~ FIXED 🥳

#### 🫥 Improving performance for Older Nvidia Cards using driver 470
  - [`SEE HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/discussions/123#discussion-6035205)
  
#### ❗ some known issues on Hyprland-Dots
- See FAQ section of Hyprland-Dots [FAQ](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/FAQ)

#### ⌨ Keybinds
- Keybinds [`CLICK`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/wiki/Keybinds)
> [!TIP]
> KooL's Dots v2.3.7 has a searchable keybind function via rofi. (SUPER SHIFT K) or right click the `HINTS` waybar button

#### ✍️ Contributing
- As stated above, these script does not contain actual config files. These are only the installer of packages
- If you want to contribute and/or test the Hyprland-Dotfiles (development branch), [`Hyprland-Dots-Development`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/tree/development)
- Want to contribute on KooL-Hyprland-Dots Click [`HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/Hyprland-Dots/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for a guide how to contribute
- Want to contribute on This Installer? Click [`HERE`](https://github.com/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for a guide how to contribute


#### 📒 Final Notes
- join my discord channel [`Discord`](https://discord.com/invite/kool-tech-world)
- Feel free to copy, re-distribute, and use this script however you want. Would appreciate if you give me some loves by crediting my work :)

#### 👍👍👍 Thanks and Credits!
- [`Hyprland`](https://hyprland.org/) Of course to Hyprland and @vaxerski for this awesome Dynamic Tiling Manager.

### 💖 Support
- a Star on my Github repos would be nice 🌟

- Subscribe to my Youtube Channel [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@Ja.KooLit) 

- you can also give support through coffee's or btc 😊

[![ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/img/githubbutton_sm.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/jakoolit)

or

[!["Buy Me A Coffee"](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/JaKooLit)

Or you can donate cryto on my btc wallet :)  
> 1N3MeV2dsX6gQB42HXU6MF2hAix1mqjo8i

![Bitcoin](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7ed32f8f-c499-46f0-a53c-3f6fbd343699)



#### 📹 Youtube videos (Click to view and watch the playlist) 📹
[![Youtube Playlist Thumbnail](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JaKooLit/screenshots/main/Youtube.png)](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDtGd5Fw5_GjXCznR0BzCJJDIQSZJRbxx&si=iaNjLulFdsZ6AV-t)

## 🥰🥰 💖💖 👍👍👍
[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland.svg?variant=adaptive)](https://starchart.cc/JaKooLit/OpenSuse-Hyprland)
